---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Week Two"
date:   2024-01-15 10:10:02 +0000
categories: blog posts
---
Welcome to our second blog entry for the development of Saving Animals by `Josh and Jakub`.

The second week was quite slow as I was still trying to get my head around the full stack we would be using. I started focusing on the front end by doing research into different frameworks, some options were Node, React and Svelt. Node was quickly ruled out as it’s quite outdated and requires a lot of files to operate: a `single page` application would be better. Svelte seemed like the better option but we would have to learn it from scratch, we decided to go with React as we know a decent bit about how it works. This will give us a lot more time for our other moving parts.

Also during the second week we were more focused on building and experimenting with the sockets however we didn’t have proper clients and their information for endpoints of these sockets. As well as this we added pages and component templates such as login, home and about page. Once research was finished on Golang and we had some type of functional server we moved then to discussing our flask application and how we are going to use it and connect it to our system.

As we have done React JS applications before we already knew where to start, we quickly developed a basic app and started testing some of our API endpoints but we wanted to do things a little differently, instead of using `Fetch` for our calls we decided on using `Axios` as it delivers widespread browser support (especially older ones) due to the fact it's based on XMLHttpRequest, on top of that it has automatic Json data transformation.

Another thing that also changed is the way React is run, as Create React App is no longer a thing since 2023, leaving us with a choice of toolchains available we chose Vite as it's well documented and efficient and it allows support for pure Java Script.

